So today, we will be focusing on creating
our own custom authentication system,
and we will be using
an identity provider as well.
So we will connecting our system
from an identity provider, okay?
So we will see how that works also.
So authentication on the web,
let's start talking about the current
state before actually writing some code.
So security risk,
this is not a security workshop, okay?
There are a lot of things
to talk about security, but
let's go over the basics just to
understand why we need to do some things.
So we have man-in-the-middle attacks.
That's actually an attack that
someone that is not the client or
the server can attack typically
through the network, or
it can be something else, but
typically through a network.
So it's not the server, no one is hacking
the server, no one is hacking the user,
someone is hacking the middle, okay?
That's kind of the idea of this attack.
Keyloggers, meaning the user is
typing a password in a keyboard,
it can be a physical keyboard or it can be
a keyboard that you install on your phone.
So when you install a custom keyboard,
if you install a keyboard that's
kind of a phishing keyboard,
you download it from an untrusted
source because someone told you it's
the best keyboard in the world that
is only for special people, okay?
And you go on download by an APK, an
Android package, not from the Play Store,
from somewhere.
Well, that keyboard will actually be
listening to your passwords, for example.
So another security risk is
easy to guess password, okay?
So, 80% of the data breaches
right now are happening
because of easy to guess passwords,
1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
okay, and the name of my dog,
the name of my mom, and so on.
That's why, okay, there are a lot
of websites asking us with many
rules to increase the security
of our passwords, and
that typically annoys us a lot as users,
okay?
So web servers and
databases attacks, okay, every day,
we are seeing news in
the media about this happens.
This is happening actually in
many companies, small companies,
large companies, governments,
where their servers are attacked somehow,
it doesn't matter how,
and they get the data.
And that data may involve
your credentials.
Phishing, social engineering attacks, in
this case, they're attacking the user and
not the server.
Phishing is a website that is trying
to mimic the real website, but
it's not a real website.
I mean, it feels like paypal.com,
but it's not paypal.com.
We have a typo in the URL and
the user think it's PayPal, and
the user is entering credentials there and
they're stalling your data.
They're stalling your credential
typically to steal your money, okay?
And social engineering attacks is that
when they send you an email, or you
receive a phone call, okay, and you pick
up the phone call and they somehow trick
you into giving them your credentials,
giving them your password, okay?
So these are security risks that are out
there, and we as full stack developers,
we need to try to do whatever
we can to reduce these risks.
We cannot remove the risks,
that's impossible actually, but
we need to do everything
we can to reduce the risks.
Make sense?
So originally on the web, I mean I
haven't started doing websites in 1995,
and originally we were talking about HTTP
authentication and login forms, okay?
So we are going to analyze what happens or
where are the risks here in a second.
Originally, I say originally,
I mean from the 90s, but
still today, 50% of the websites
are using this technique.
So you were in the browser,
so you are the user, okay?
You have a secret, that's your password.
You type your secret in a form.
It can be an HTML form, or I mean, it's
not something that you see these days, but
HTTP supports basic authentication,
I'm not sure if you have seen that, okay?
I'm talking about the the era of
Internet Explorer and Netscape, but
it is still working these days.
So instead of you designing a form in
HTML, the browser will provide you a form
,a native form, okay, and
you type a username and password there.
And the username and
password goes in HTTP headers.
They travel through HTTP
headers to the server.
Anyways, at the end,
it's just the same thing.
It's the web designer designing a form,
or the browser deciding a form,
but the data actually,
that password is coming from the user
to the browser through a keyboard,
maybe, again,
beautiful keyboard on a phone or
a tablet or a physical keyboard.
From the browser,
it goes to the server of our HTTP, and
typically the server will
store that in a database.
So that's simple to follow,
okay, I think you know that.
And typically, it's using HTTP
as a protocol originally, okay?
Well, what was the original
problem of the web during the 90s?
Well, in this diagram,
we have at least two panes of failure,
the keyboard and HTTP, why?
Because on HTTP,
everything goes in plain text.
So the man in the middle were
a pretty common attack, okay, there.
I mean, just to give you a quick sample,
you go to Starbucks to a public Wi Fi,
with some Linux knowledge,
you could get into the router,
into the Wi Fi router from Starbucks.
And then you can see every HTTP
request that everyone at Starbucks
is doing right now,
including all the credentials of the login
credentials that users
were typing on HTTP sites.
But we know that these days,
HTTP sites are not a good idea.
We should upgrade to HTTPS, okay?
And with HTTPS, what happens is that there
is encryption between the browser and
the web server, so
the man in the middle cannot
actually see your credentials, okay?
So we are solving that problem,
but we still have other problems.
For example,
an attacker can get into the server.
All the data breaches out there from large
companies, this is what happens, okay?
So even with HTTPS, I mean,
some people say, it's HTTPS, it's secure.
No, actually, no, in fact, today,
anyone can get an HTTPS server.
And even if the browser says
secure in the URL bar, yeah,
we know, that's just from
the browser to the server, okay?
In fact, today,
I mean from 2020, I think, or
2019, on every browser,
if you have a form,
a login form or a registration
form with a password on HTTP.
The browser will give the user
a red warning saying be careful,
this site is not secure, and
sending this data can lead
to your credentials to
appear somewhere else, okay?
So we still have that risk.
And also, we have the risk of the user,
that's the user typing
the password in places where
it's not the right place or
that's phishing, okay?
Or it can be social engineering attacks,
you are giving an attacker the password,
okay?
And sometimes there are even
weird situations, for example,
sometimes you're on an app, for
example, it can be a QR code reader.
I mean, you went to the Play Store
on Android or on App Store on iOS,
and you downloaded a QR code reader,
because you don't know that today,
you don't need to,
you can use just the camera app.
But let's say you go to the store and
download a QR code reader.
So then you take a picture of
a QR code with your phone and
the website is being rendered in
an inner browser using a WebView,
not really your real browser,
the QR code browser.
And actually, that QR code app that
is rendering your app on the website
on top of that can read what
you're typing in the website.
So maybe the website is the right website.
Maybe you don't have a keylogger, but
the browser is kind of a fake browser.
It's actually pretty simple to
develop that solution, okay?
Of course, if someone finds that in
the Play Store, they can report that and
the Play Store will remove that
from the store, but anyway,
you don't know what happened.
So sometimes the stores,
the QA team will not actually see that,
okay?
So that's why we need to be very careful
on where are you typing your credentials,
okay?.
Sometimes if it's not the browser,
be careful, because that's
not the browser and that app can
actually see what you're typing, okay?
So, Easy to guess passwords and
also reusage of the same password,
even if you have a very complex password,
but you use the same password on
every website, it's a risk, okay?
It's a risk, why?
Because, yeah, if that server is
hacked and it has a data breach,
they will get that complex password that
you are using and then they try that
password on other websites, and
you're using the same one everywhere.
So password managers help with both
problems, because they create really
complex passwords and different
passwords per website or per app, okay?
But it's adding another problem,
or another point of failure.
First, we won't remember those passwords,
so we always need the password manager.
So then you say, okay,
I'm in Japan on vacations.
I don't have Internet here, but my hotel
has a computer and I can log in there, and
then I don't have the password, then I
don't have the password manager, okay?
So you can login in the password manager,
but
then the password manager is an entry
point of failure, because someone can get
my password manager password
with a keylogger, so yeah.
So, I mean, we are better than before,
but it's still not ideal, okay?
And what happens is
the password manager is hacked.
Well, some password manager, they have a
vault and that's encrypted on my phone or
with a key on my phone, but
what happens then if I lost my phone?
So there is always a problem, okay?
And by the way,
there is no silver bullet here.
There will be always problems,
but we need to try to find the balance
between security and user experience.
And right now, yeah,
we are adding more security, but
we are lowering down user experience.
When we are doing that, okay,
users will start doing weird things,
such as taking a Post-it and writing down
a password in a Post-it in the office.
You've seen that, I guess.
I have a couple of pictures from many
places that I've seen where people were
doing this, posting Post-it somewhere,
a piece of paper, because, yeah,
the password is really complicated.
I've seen people writing down all
their passwords in a paper notebook.
At home, they have a paper with all
the passwords written down, okay?
Because the user experience is so
bad to actually because we
were increasing security that at the end,
it's not working, okay?
So for example, I'm not sure if
you have seen this website, so
I encourage you to try it if you haven't.
It's open source, so it's from
the community, so it's safe to use,
let's say that.
So actually, you can put here your
email address or your phone, okay,
and it will tell you if your email has
appeared in any data breach, okay?
There's a good chance, actually pretty
high, that it's going to be a yes for you.
And the same happens with passwords.
In fact, today, if you're using Google
Chrome, or if you're using Safari for
browsing the web, every time you log in in
a website with a password that has been
part of a leak,
I'm not sure if you've seen that.
You receive a message saying, hey,
this password has been used in a leak,
maybe it's time to change the password,
Okay,
because unless you have just
created an email five minutes ago,
there is a good chance that your email and
maybe your credentials, because they were
in plain text or they were hashed, I don't
know, your credentials were also leaked.